.\" Copyright 1996 David Miller <dm0@avana.net>
.\" For distribution with the Nautilus source or executable
.Dd 01 Dec 2000
.Dt NAUTILUS 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm nautilus
.Nd secure dialup/IP voice phone
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm nautilus
{
.Fl a | A | o | O
}
.Op Fl c Ar coder
.Op Fl e Ar cipher
.Op Fl i Op Fl n Ar port
.Op Fl k Ar protocol
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl s Ar speed
.Op Fl L Ar local originating port
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl x
.Nm nautilus
.Fl l Ar coders | ciphers
.Nm nautilus
.Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm nautilus
allows half-duplex encrypted-voice conversation over standard phone lines
or network links.  It requires a PC or Sun Sparcstation with speakers and
microphone.  Additionally, a 4800 bps or faster modem or IP network
connection to another computer running
.Nm nautilus
is required.

Any combination of available coders and ciphers are possible.  The coder
stores the audio data in digital form and the cipher encrypts it so as to be 
easily deciphered only by the intended recipient.  The
.Op Fl c Ar coder
/
.Op Fl e Ar cipher
combination may be limited by the available CPU speed or transmission
bandwidth.  (See 
.Op Fl v
for details.)

.Sh OPTIONS
.Fl a
Auto-answer mode (answer upon connection)

.Fl A
Manual answer mode (answer immediately)

.Fl c Ar coder
   Coder selection {SP64, SP85, SP124, LPC10}
   (default is connection-dependant)

.Fl e Ar cipher
   Encryption cipher {NONE, BLOWFISH, IDEA, 3DES}
   (default is BLOWFISH)

.Fl h
Display help for
.Nm nautilus

.Fl i Op Fl n Ar port
   Use IP port rather than direct modem connection

.Fl k Ar protocol
   Key exchange protocol (passphrase or Diffie-Hellman)
   {PP, DH, DH512, DH768, DH1024} (default is DH768)

.Fl l Ar coders | Ar ciphers
   List available coders or ciphers

.Fl o
Originate a
.Nm nautilus
session

.Fl O
Originate a
.Nm nautilus
session without dialing i.e. while talking on the Phone

.Fl p Ar port
   Serial port for direct modem connection

.Fl s Ar speed
   Serial port (DTE) speed for direct modem connection

.Fl L Ar local originating port
   local (source) port when originating a call. Needed for 
   NAT traversal

.Fl v
Display verbose coder speed data

.Fl x
Suppress startup and ring sounds

.Sh INTERNATIONAL USE
Export of
.Nm nautilus
encryption code from the United States is presumably regulated by the
U.S. Department of Commerce via the Commerce Control List.  Export 
this software from the USA (or import to the USA) at your own risk.


.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
Typically named 
.Nm nautilus.cfg ,
alternatively specified by the environment variable
.Nm NAUTILUS_CONFIG_FILE .
With the 
.Nm UNIX
version these are 
.Nm /etc/nautilus.cfg 
(system wide) and 
.Nm ~/nautilus.cfg.
(per user)

.Sh SEE ALSO
.Nm ANNOUNCE ,
.Nm CHANGES ,
.Nm nautilus.doc ,
.Nm rsalicen.txt ,
.Nm http://www.lila.com/nautilus/ ,
( original developers home page)
.Nm http://www.franken.de/crypt/nautilus/ 
(new home page).

.Sh AUTHORS
Originally developed by William Dorsey <dorsey@lila.com>, Pat Mullarky,
and Paul Rubin.  Additional development and support from the rest
of the Nautilus development team <nautilus@lila.com>.  Post-1.5a development
by David Miller <dm0@avana.net>. Maintained now by the secure Telephony
group Erlangen <secfone@immd1.informatik.uni-erlangen.de> 
and Johannes Poehlmann

.Sh PLATFORMS
Ported to MS-DOS, Sun OS, Solaris, and Linux.
.\" .TH NAUTILUS 1 "01 Dec 2000" "Nautilus 1.7c" "Nautilus Manual"
